{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404
\cocoascreenfonts1{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\margb720\margt720\vieww19180\viewh26020\viewkind1\viewscale150
\deftab720
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\ri-4\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs20 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
NEWTON-II END USER LICENSE FRAMEWORK AGREEMENT (EULA)\
NOTE: 
\b0 BY USING THIS SOFTWARE, COPYING OR OTHERWISE USING, YOU AGREE TO THE TERMS IN THIS END USER LICENSE FRAMEWORK AGREEMENT ("EULA") ACCEPT AS BINDING. IF YOU TO THE TERMS IN THIS EULA DO NOT AGREE, DO NOT INSTALL THE SOFTWARE, COPYING OR USE. "YOU" MEANS THE NATURAL PERSON OR THE LEGAL PERSON, THIS EULA BE BOUND ACKNOWLEDGES AND THEIR EMPLOYEES AND THIRD PARTY CONTRACTORS THAT PROVIDE SERVICES FOR THIS PERSON. YOU ARE LIABLE FOR ANY FAILURE TO COMPLY THE TERMS OF THIS AGREEMENT BY EMPLOYEES AND THIRD PARTY CONTRACTORS.
\fs24 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab700\ri-4\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b\fs20 \cf0 \
1.
\b0\fs24  
\b\fs20 DEFINITIONS
\b0\fs24  \

\fs20 1.1 "
\b Software
\b0 " means software products, the use of which you have a license under this EULA, including, but not limited to, any related acquired or in the delivery of software components, application programming interfaces, associated media, printed documentation, online - or electronic documentation and related updates and service packages ("Maintenance Releases").\
1.2 "
\b Open Source Software
\b0 " means various open source software components for which the licensing terms of the open source license agreements that are included in the related to these software components materials apply. Open Source Software is composed of individual software components. Each of these software components has its own copyright and applicable license conditions. The information on the open source licenses are at the end of this text.\
1.3 \'84
\b Sample documents
\b0 " refers to the sample files that might exist in the software.\
1.4 "
\b Documentation
\b0 " denote all the Software Distribution possibly accompanying files with instructions for using the software.\
1.4 The \'84
\b manufacturer
\b0 \'93 of this software is the chair of physics and its didactics at the University of W\'fcrzburg\

\fs24  \

\b\fs20 2.
\b0\fs24  
\b\fs20 GRANT AND EXPLOITATION OF RIGHTS FOR SOFTWARE
\b0\fs24 \

\fs20 2.1 
\b License.
\b0  You are hereby granted a license to use the program. Under the terms of this EULA grants you the manufacturer herewith a non-exclusive, non-transferable license, without rights to sublicense, to use the object code of the software. You may use the documentation supplied with the software in conjunction with the permitted uses of the Software.\
2.2 
\b License Restrictions.
\b0  It is not permitted to copy the Software except for a reasonable number of machine-readable copies for the purpose of backup or archive or for explicitly referred to in this EULA purposes. It is not permissible to remove claims, trademarks or trade names, copyright notices or other proprietary markings of the related software. You are granted any rights to trademarks or service marks. The manufacturer reserves all rights that are not expressly granted to you in this EULA.\
2.3 
\b Restrictions.
\b0  It's not the software allows you to modify or create derivative works therefrom developments. You may not be allowed to decompile the source code of the software to resolve to develop back (reverse engineering) or to try a different way, completely or partially derive the source code, unless (i) it is essential to the necessary with the software for information to achieve the interoperability of other independently created computer program and (ii) 2, this is limited to the parts of the software that are necessary to achieve interoperability and (iii) the legal requirements of \'a7 69e Para. Copyright Act are complied with.\
2.4 
\b Sample documents.
\b0  The software distribution may include sample documents and documentation. You are entitled to freely use these examples and disseminate. The manufacturer does not provide support for the sample documents.\
2.5 
\b Documentation.
\b0  The Software Distribution may lie in explanatory documentation. All rights to text, picture and sound remain with the manufacturer. You are entitled to use the documentation and to pass unchanged through training. The manufacturer makes no representations about the accuracy of the documentation.\

\b \
3.
\b0\fs24  
\b\fs20 CLAIMS
\b0\fs24 \

\fs20 The manufacturer claimed all legal claims and interests with respect to the and to the Software and all copyrights, in related, trade secrets, patents, trademarks and other intellectual property or technology, including registrations, applications, renewals and extensions of such rights.
\fs24 \
\

\b\fs20 4.
\b0\fs24  
\b\fs20 SUPPORT- UND ABONNEMENTDIENSTLEISTUNGEN NICHT INBEGRIFFEN
\b0\fs24  \

\fs20 The manufacturer does not provide support services on the basis of this EULA.\

\fs24 \

\b\fs20 5.
\b0\fs24  
\b\fs20 WARRANTY AND LIMITATION OF LIABILITY
\b0\fs24 \

\fs20 5.1 
\b Warranty
\b0 . The manufacturer makes no warranty on the product.\
\
5.2 
\b LIMITATION OF LIABILITY
\b0 \
THE MANUFACTURER IS OBLIGED TO ANYONE CLAIMS FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, OR DELIBERATELY DAMAGES CAUSED, INCLUDING LOSS OF DATA THAT BY USING THIS SOFTWARE OR ITS DOCUMENTATION, MUST BE GUARANTEED. TO THIS EFFECT SHOULD THE SOFTWARE BE APPLIED, IF THIS LIFE AND LIMB PEOPLE AT RISK, OR OTHER DAMAGE CAUSED TO BE.\
ALSO, THERE IS FOR THE QUALITY OF SOFTWARE, PARTICULARLY WITH RESPECT TO WHICH MAY CONTAIN BUGS, AND ARE PROVIDED TO BE OUT OF THE ACQUISITION LICENSE NO CLAIMS REGARDING A PROGRAM IMPROVEMENT BE DERIVED.\
\

\b 6.
\b0\fs24  
\b\fs20 GENERAL
\b0\fs24  \

\fs20 6.1 
\b Entire Agreement.
\b0  This agreement specifies the scope of the entire liability of the manufacturer and your exclusive remedy with respect to the Software and supersedes the terms of any orders or other communications or statements in advertising texts relating to this software. You acknowledge and agree that this Agreement constitutes a complete description of the contract between you and the manufacturer with respect to the software contract and that no other prior or contemporaneous understandings, commitments, information or descriptions regarding the software are available.\
6.2 
\b Headers.
\b0  The headings in this EULA are only for overview purposes only and may not influence the interpretation of this EULA.\
6.3 
\b Waiver and Modification.
\b0  No failure of either party to exercise or enforce any of its rights under this EULA, has the effect of a waiver of these rights.\
6.4 
\b Severability
\b0 . If any provision in this EULA may prove illegal or unenforceable, it will be enforced to the maximum extent permissible, and the legality and enforceability of the other provisions of this EULA will not be affected.\
6.5 
\b Governing Law.
\b0  This EULA is governed by German law to the exclusion of the United Nations Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods (United Nations Convention on the International Sale of Goods).\
6.6 
\b Contact Information.
\b0  If you have any questions concerning this EULA, or want to record for another reason contact the manufacturer, direct your inquiries to the following address:\
 
\fs24 \

\fs20 Lehrstuhl f\'fcr Physik und ihre Didaktik\
Universit\'e4t W\'fcrzburg\
97074 W\'fcrzburg, Deutschland \
\
oder \
\
E-Mail: did-apps@physik.uni-wuerzburg.de 
\fs24  
\fs20 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li544\fi-283\ri0\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 \ul \ulc0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li283\fi-283\ri0\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf0 \ulnone \'a92015 Lehrstuhl f\'fcr Physik und ihre Didaktik an der Universit\'e4t W\'fcrzburg \
(pid.physik.uni-wuerzburg.de)\
\pard\pardeftab700\li283\fi-283\ri-4\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab700\ri-4\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs18 \cf0 Open source licences of the used Libraries:\
===========================================\
\
***************************************************\
***** JEP 2.4.0 - Java Math Expression Parser *****\
***************************************************\
JEP and JEP Extensions copyright information:\
\
All source code in this package except some generated code is written by \
Nathan Funk and Richard Morris. The generated code is output of JavaCC.\
The package includes the binary libraries Jama and JUnit.\
The copyright information for JavaCC, JAMA and JUnit is included below.\
\
JavaCC - https://javacc.dev.java.net/\
The Java Compiler Compiler (JavaCC) is a parser generator used for creating \
some of the source code in this package. This package only includes source\
code generated by JavaCC, but not the JavaCC source code itself.\
Java CC is released under the Berkeley Software Distribution (BSD) License\
(http://www.opensource.org/licenses/bsd-license.html)\
\
JAMA - http://math.nist.gov/javanumerics/jama/\
Jama is authored by members of the MathWorks (http://www.mathworks.com/) and \
NIST (http://www.nist.gov/). It has been released to the public domain.\
The following is the official Copyright Noticed as posted on the JAMA web site.\
Copyright Notice: This software is a cooperative product of The MathWorks and \
the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) which has been \
released to the public domain. Neither The MathWorks nor NIST assumes any \
responsibility whatsoever for its use by other parties, and makes no \
guarantees, expressed or implied, about its quality, reliability, or any \
other characteristic.\
\
JUnit - http://www.junit.org/\
JUnit is licensed under the Common Public License Version 1.0\
http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cpl.php\
\
\
********************************************\
***** Java FREEHEP - java.freehep.org/ *****\
********************************************\
Copyright Holders:\
\
CERN, Geneva, Switzerland\
SLAC, Stanford, California, U.S.A.\
University of California Santa Cruz, U.S.A.\
\
This software is distributed under the LGPL license, see http://www.gnu.org.\
\
}